                                                        Static and Dynamic Type Languaes

                  In that  following conditions we can discussed about the differance between the static and dynamic type languaes
           
     Statically typed Languages:
                  
                     A languaes is statically typed if the variable is known at compile time. for some languaes this means that you as
                        the programmer must specify what type each variable is other languaes.
                        (e.g: Java ,c, c++)

                    offer some form of type inference the capability of the type system to deduce the type of a variable(e.g:ocmal,Haskeel.Scala ,kotlin)
                 
                     The main advantages here is that all kinds of checking can be done by the compiler and therefore a lot of trivial bugs are caught at
                     a very early stage....
                     
                     statically typed programming  languaes do type checking(i.e the process of verifying and enfarcing the constraint of types) at
                     compile-time as oppesed to runtime.


                     Examples:
                              c,c++,Java,Rust,Go ,Scala.. 


     Dynamically typed Languaes:

                      This means that you a programmer can write a little quicker because you do not have to specify types every time.
                      (unless using a statically -typed languaes with type inferance)...
                   
                     Examples:
                               Perl,Ruby,Python,Php,Javascript,Erlang..




                       Most scripting Languaes have this feature as there is no compiler to static type-checking anyway but you may find yourself
                       searching for a bug that is due to the interpreter misinterpreating the type of a variable..
                       Luckily scripts tend to be small so bugs have not so many places to hide.. 
                       

                       Dynamically typed the programming languaes do the checking at run-time as opposed to compile time.






